---
keywords:
- Ledger
- UTXO
- explanation
description: Stardust Ledger Anatomy.  
image: /img/logo/Chrysalis_logo_dark.png
---

# Stardust Ledger

## Alias Output

The first and most important ledger program for ISC chains is the _Alias Output_. Simply put, this represents a new
type of ledger account suitable for committee ran smart contract chains. The main features are:

- storage of state commitments of the second-layer smart contract chains,
- globally unique address assigned upon creation,
- different account privileges for two controllers that can be rotated, and
- ability of issuing custom tokens that are linked to the unique address.

Alias outputs can be created by anyone in the protocol via transactions. Once an alias output is created, only its
controllers are able to unlock it in subsequent transactions.

Depending on which controller unlocks it, different commands or state mutations are possible. The _State Controller_ is
allowed to change the state data stored in the output and also to manipulate token balances of the alias account. One
restriction of the _State Controller_ is that whenever it unlocks the alias output in a transactions, it must transition
the alias into its new state, meaning the alias output must appear in the transaction as a created output.

The _Governor_ on the other hand might choose to destroy the alias by not creating its subsequent state as an output in
the transaction. It also has the power to change the controller entities.

Funds can be sent directly to the unique address of the alias by anyone. Since this address is generated by the protocol,
it doesn't have a private key that could be used for signing transactions to prove ownership. So how does one prove that
they own the funds locked under an alias address?

The trick is to require the unlocking of the alias output that defines the address in the same transaction that tries
to unlock funds sitting on the alias address. _If you can prove you own the alias account by successfully unlocking its
alias output in a transaction, you can access the funds locked under its address._

## Foundry Outputs

Foundries deal with the issuance of user defined custom tokens, so-called _Native Tokens_.

## Output Unlock Conditions

As we mentioned above, unlocking an output is performed via a digital signature. This is what we call an
_Address Unlock Condition_.

TODO
